The glutamatergic subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the γ-­ aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe) form a reciprocally connected net- work that regulates information flow in the corticobasal gangliothalamic circuit. The STN-­GPe network exhibits asynchronous, tonic activity under normal conditions and relatively synchronous, phasic (often rhythmic) activity in Parkinson's disease and its experimental models (Mallet et al., 2008; Raz et al., 2000; Urbain et al., 2000). Thus, the activity pattern of the STN-­GPe network is closely correlated with motor function. Indeed, modification of abnormal STN-­GPe activity by high-­frequency electrical stimulation, optogenetic manipulation, or chemogenetic manipulation of the STN or GPe ameliorates motor dysfunction in Parkinsonism.

As outlined above, in PD models and in late stage PD patients, GPe and STN neurons spike in synchronous, rhythmic bursts – a behavior that is rarely seen in healthy brains 1–3, 10–12. This pathophysiological activity is correlated with motor symptom severity and is responsive to L-DOPA treatment, suggesting it is causally linked to motor dysfunction 33. Because of its linkage to the core PD symptoms, its origins have been the subject of a great deal of speculation. Because the GPe and the STN are a reciprocally connected pair of excitatory and inhibitory cell groups 10, the dyad they form seems perfectly designed to produce alternating periods of activity and quiescence, or rhythmic bursting. With the widespread and potent axonal projection of GPe neurons 10, this activity pattern could entrain many basal ganglia nuclei 34 leading to global network synchrony and the motor symptoms of the disease.

In monkeys, administration of DA agonist quinpirole caused an increase in the spontaneous firing rate, whereas the administration of the antagonist sulpiride resulted in a decrease of the rate (Hadipour-Niktarash et al., 2012).

The symptoms of Parkinson’s disease (PD) appear only after substantial degeneration of the dopaminergic neuron system (e.g. an 80% depletion of striatal dopa- mine) – that is, there is a substantive presymptomatic period of the disease. It is widely believed that dopa- mine-related compensatory mechanisms are respon- sible for delaying the appearance of symptoms. Recent advances in understanding the presymptomatic phase of PD have increased our understanding of these dopamine-related compensatory mechanisms and have highlighted the role of non-dopamine-mediated mech- anisms both within and outside the basal ganglia. This increased knowledge of plasticity within cortical–basal- ganglia–thalamocortical circuitry as dopaminergic neuron degeneration progresses has implications for understanding plasticity in neural circuits generally and, more specifically, for developing novel thera- peutics or presymptomatic diagnostics for PD.

They proposed a series of functional compensatory changes within and outside the basal ganglia. We would like to discuss an alternative hypothesis for the onset of PD and the role of compensatory changes.

In summary, this study demonstrates that hyperdirect pathway motor cortical inputs to the STN regulate the strength of indirect pathway GPe-STN inhibition. Under normal condi- tions, this heterosynaptic regulation is homeostatic and bal- ances cortical excitation with an appropriate level of GPe inhibition. However, in the absence of dopamine, GPe-STN inhi- bition is phase-offset to motor cortex-STN excitation, leading to increased activation of STN NMDARs and profound strength- ening of GPe-STN transmission, which may, in turn, promote pathological activity.

Based on experimentally-observed neuronal data (Tachibana et al., 2011), we investigated mechanisms for generation and maintenance of pathological 8–15Hz burst oscillations in recurrent STN- GPe circuits in a dopamine-depleted state. Using computer simulations ofa spiking neuron model of the recurrent STN-GPe circuit, we explored the required neuronal, synaptic, and circuit mechanisms for normal firing and pathological burst oscillation. We then investigated how cortical excitatory input to the STN affects BG oscillations generated in the STN-GPe circuit and showed that for two parameter regions, the model reproduces BG neuronal activity in terms of mean firing rates, oscillation frequency, and burst discharges, corresponding to normal and parkinsonian states.

Computational modeling studies have tackled mechanisms of pathological BG oscillations (Gillies et al., 2002; Terman et al., 2002; Rubin and Terman, 2004; Leblois et al., 2006a; Hahn and McIntyre, 2010; Holgado et al., 2010; Kumar et al., 2011). However, their simulated results did not agree well with experimentally-observed neuronal properties of the BG 8–15 Hz burst oscillations (Wichmann and Soares, 2006; Tachibana et al., 2011). Furthermore, the proposed role of strengthened striatal inhibition for the induction of the BG oscillations (Terman et al., 2002; Kumar et al., 2011) is not consistent with the experimental evidence that the blockade of GABAergic synaptic transmissions of GPe neurons from the striatum and other GPe neurons did not affect the 8–15 Hz oscillations (Tachibana et al., 2011). Therefore, the manner in which the pathological 8–15 Hz burst oscillations are generated remains unclear.

Neuronal recordings in nonhuman primate PD models show exaggerated oscillatory burst activities in STN, GPe, and GPi that are concentrated in narrow frequency bands of 4–8 Hz and 8–15 Hz (Raz et al., 2000; Heimer et al., 2006; Wichmann and Soares, 2006; Tachibana et al., 2011), the latter ofwhich overlaps with the frequency band recorded from human PD patients. These 8–15 Hz neuronal burst oscillations are reduced by both dopaminergic therapy and deep brain stimulation, which can alleviate PD motor symptoms (Heimer et al., 2006; Rosin et al., 2011; Tachibana et al., 2011). Recently, neuronal recordings from primate PD models under a variety of pharmacological manipulations demonstrated that STN 8–15 Hz neuronal oscillations are the origin of GPe/GPi oscillations and that they are dependent on GABAergic inhibition from GPe and glutamatergic inputs from the cortex/thalamus (Tachibana et al., 2011).

nucleus (STN) and the internal/external segments of the globus pallidus (GPi/GPe) of PD patients (Miller and DeLong, 1987; Levy et al., 2001; Kühn et al., 2005). These abnormal oscillations are implicated in PD symptoms, such as akinesia, bradykinesia, and rigidity (Boraud et al., 2002; Brown, 2003; Gatev et al., 2006; Rivlin-Etzion et al., 2006; Hammond et al., 2007; but see Leblois et al., 2006b). We constructed a spiking neuron model of the recurrent STN-GPe circuit and investigated mechanisms for generation of parkinsonian beta band oscillations by exploring physiological parameters.

Parkinson’s disease (PD) is characterized by progressive movement disorders caused by dopamine depletion in the basal ganglia (BG) resulting fromdegeneration ofmidbrain dopaminergic neurons. Abnormally synchronized oscillations in local field potentials (LFPs) between 8 and 30 Hz, which are called “the BG beta frequency band” (Hammond et al., 2007), are observed in the subthalamic

Although elevated striatal inhibition of GPe neurons by dopamine depletion (Hernandez-Lopez et al., 2000; Liang et al., 2008) is often linked to pathological BG oscillations (Terman et al., 2002; Kumar et al., 2011), we excluded it from candidate neural phenomena related to generation of BG oscillations because experimental results showed that blockade of ionotropic GABAergic transmission either did not affect or even exaggerated GPe 8–15 Hz oscillations (Tachibana et al., 2011).

We considered the following neural phenomena that are related to BG dopamine depletion as candidate causes of the BG pathological oscillations: (1) reduction of GPe autonomous activity (Chan et al., 2011), (2) strengthening ofGPe inhibition to the STN due to release from D2-receptor-mediated presynaptic suppression of transmitter release (Shen and Johnson, 2000, 2005), and by an increase in the number of synaptic connections per GPe-STN axon terminal (Fan et al., 2012), (3) increased STN-GPe excitation to compensate for the reduction of GPe autonomous activity (Chan et al., 2011)

Post-inhibitory rebound excitation of STN neurons is a candidate driving force ofthe oscillatory burst activity (Bevan et al., 2002), which could account for the importance of GPe inhibition to the STN for generation of the BG parkinsonian oscillatory burst activity of STN neurons (Tachibana et al., 2011).

Experimental evidence suggests that reciprocal STN-GPe interconnections and glutamatergic inputs to the STN in dopamine-depleted states are both important for generation and amplification of the parkinsonian, oscillatory burst activity of STNneurons that subsequently propagates to the GPi (Tachibana et al., 2011).

In conclusion, the BG seems to be anatomo-func- tionally designed to provide stability to the network underlying and operating movement control. DA deple- tion is compensated for a long period (i.e., years in PD) because the intrinsic BG mechanisms are capable of maintaining neuronal output within normal range. Once striatal DA reaches a threshold deficit, treatment with standard levodopa induces marked variability in DA availability and consequently, drastic changes in BG output activity. This departs significantly from the normal features of the BG.

The precise chain of events leading to increased STN activity is not completely understood, but impaired dopami- nergic regulation of the GPe, GPi, and STN may be involved.

The first BG pattern generator system identified was the reciprocally connected subthalamic nucleus (STN) and globus pallidus (GP) circuit22,23. The organization of GP into prototypic and arky- pallidal neurons might also constitute a key neuronal substrate to propagate these β-oscillations in BG loop24,25. However, alter- native circuit generators have also been proposed in the cortex26, the striatum27, and other BG networks19,28,29. In particular, the cortex is a strong rhythm generator30 that presents abnormal β- synchronization during PD31. As such, one attractive hypothesis is that the parkinsonian β-oscillations might be generated in the cortex and abnormally maintained/amplified by GP–STN network26,32 or the hyperdirect pathway21,28. However, the spe- cific contribution of these different circuit components has never been tested with population-specific and millisecond time-scale control of neuronal networks.

On the other hand, changes in BG oscillatory activity are also recognized as a critical functional change associated with PD7.It materializes as an excessive expression of synchronized oscillatory activity across BG nuclei in the beta (β) frequency range (12–30 Hz) in humans or experimental parkinsonism15,16. These syn- chronized oscillations were first associated with tremors6 but seem to be better correlated with akinesia/rigidity13,17. Unlike spike-rate changes, their generation mechanisms remain unknown. From a theoretical perspective, any neuronal networks incorporating negative feedback loops with delays can generate oscillatory activity patterns18. The multiple parallel and recurrent inhibitory feedback loops in the BG network include many circuits that, in theory, could generate PD-related β-synchronization19–21.

On one hand, spike-rate changes are the backbone of the classic model of BG dysfunction9. In this scheme, dopaminergic loss in the striatum triggers an imbalance in the firing activity of striatal neurons involved in BG direct and indirect pathways, resulting in a cascade of firing rate changes along these circuits which ulti- mately leads to an overinhibition of the motor system4,5. The direct/indirect striatal imbalance in firing activity has been con- firmed experimentally10,11, and the effect of firing rate alterations on the motor deficits in PD is highlighted by optogenetic studies showing that driving hyperactivity in the indirect pathway striatal neurons generates a parkinsonian-like state in rodent12. In addi- tion, spike-rate features can be predicative of parkinsonism13,14.

Disruption in the dynamical properties orchestrating local firing rates and global network oscillations changes are observed in many neurological disorders3. This is particularly well-illustrated in the basal ganglia (BG) where the loss of dopa- mine in Parkinson’s disease (PD) is associated with persistent alterations in both the firing rate4,5 and oscillatory synchroniza- tion among and between BG nuclei6–8.Defining how these changes interact and are orchestrated is a key aspect to better understand the circuit mechanism underlying their generation.

Studies of the pathophysiology of parkinsonism (specifically akinesia and bradykinesia) have a long history and primarily model the consequences of dopamine loss in the basal ganglia on the function of the basal ganglia/thalamocortical circuit(s). Changes of firing rates of individual nodes within these circuits were originally considered central to parkinsonism. However, this view has now given way to the belief that changes in firing patterns within the basal ganglia and related nuclei are more important, including the emergence of burst discharges, greater synchrony of firing between neighboring neurons, oscillatory activity patterns, and the excessive coupling of oscillatory activities at different frequencies.

Changes of Firing Rates
Altered Firing Patterns and Oscillations
Changes of firing rates of individual nodes within these circuits were originally considered central to parkinsonism. However, this view has now given way to the belief that changes in firing patterns within the basal ganglia and related nuclei are more important, including the emergence of burst discharges, greater synchrony of firing between neighboring neurons, oscillatory activity patterns, and the excessive coupling of oscillatory activities at different frequencies.
Changing Views of the Pathophysiology of Parkinsonism 2019

Enhanced oscillations at beta frequencies (8–30 Hz) are a signature neural dynamic pathology in the basal ganglia and cortex of Parkinson’s disease patients. The mechanisms underlying these pathological beta oscillations remain elusive. Here, using mathematical models, we find that robust beta oscillations can emerge from inhibitory interactions between
This work demonstrates that functional connections from the globus pallidus externa (GPe) to striatum are substantially stronger onto fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs) than onto medium spiny neurons. Our circuit model suggests that when GPe spikes are synchronous, this pallidostriatal pathway causes synchronous FSI activity pauses, which allow a transient window of disinhibition for medium spiny neurons. In simulated dopamine-depletion, this GPe-FSI activity is necessary for the emergence of strong synchronization and the amplification and propagation of β oscillations, which are a hallmark of parkinsonian circuit dysfunction. These results suggest that GPe may play a central role in propagating abnormal circuit activity to striatum, which in turn projects to downstream basal ganglia structures. These findings warrant further exploration of GPe as a target for interventions for Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease is a movement disorder caused by dopamine depletion in the basal ganglia. Abnormally synchronized neuronal oscillations between 8 and 15 Hz in the basal ganglia are implicated in motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. However, how these abnormal oscillations are generated and maintained in the dopamine-depleted state is unknown. Based on neural recordings in a primate model of Parkinson's disease and other experimental and computational evidence, we hypothesized that the recurrent circuit between the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe) generates and maintains parkinsonian oscillations, and that the cortical excitatory input to the STN amplifies them. To investigate this hypothesis through computer simulations, we developed a spiking neuron model of the STN-GPe circuit by incorporating electrophysiological properties of neurons and synapses. A systematic parameter search by computer simulation identified regions in the space of the intrinsic excitability of GPe neurons and synaptic strength from the GPe to the STN that reproduce normal and parkinsonian states. In the parkinsonian state, reduced firing of GPe neurons and increased GPe-STN inhibition trigger burst activities of STN neurons with strong post-inhibitory rebound excitation, which is usually subject to short-term depression. STN neuronal bursts are shaped into the 8–15 Hz, synchronous oscillations via recurrent interactions of STN and GPe neurons. Furthermore, we show that cortical excitatory input to the STN can amplify or suppress pathological STN oscillations depending on their phase and strength, predicting conditions of cortical inputs to the STN for suppressing oscillations.

Simple models including energy and spike constraints reproduce complex activity patterns and metabolic disruptions   2020   PLOS COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY
The new models enable both more accurate modeling and the possibility to study energy-associated disorders over the whole time-course of disease progression instead of only comparing the initially healthy status with the final diseased state. These models, therefore, provide new theoretical and computational methods to assess the opportunities of early diagnostics and the potential of energy-centered approaches to improve therapies.

Compensatory mechanisms in Parkinson's disease: Circuits adaptations and role in disease modification  2017, Experimental Neurology
The motor features of Parkinson's disease (PD) are well known to manifest only when striatal dopaminergic deficit reaches 60–70%. Thus, PD has a long pre-symptomatic and pre-motor evolution during which compensatory mechanisms take place to delay the clinical onset of disabling manifestations. Classic compensatory mechanisms have been attributed to changes and adjustments in the nigro-striatal system, such as increased neuronal activity in the substantia nigra pars compacta and enhanced dopamine synthesis and release in the striatum. However, it is not so clear currently that such changes occur early enough to account for the presymptomatic period. Other possible mechanisms relate to changes in basal ganglia and motor cortical circuits including the cerebellum. However, data from early PD patients are difficult to obtain as most studies have been carried out once the diagnosis and treatments have been established. Likewise, putative compensatory mechanisms taking place throughout disease evolution are nearly impossible to distinguish by themselves. Here, we review the evidence for the role of the best known and other possible compensatory mechanisms in PD. We also discuss the possibility that, although beneficial in practical terms, compensation could also play a deleterious role in disease progression.

Disease-Modifying Interventions Not Specifically Influencing the Underlying PD Pathobiology
A number of therapeutic approaches could be considered disease modifying without having an impact on the multisystems progressive neurodegenerative processes. For example, if it were possible to reinstate or bolster the compensatory mechanisms6 that presumably fail as clinical symptoms develop, it might be possible to turn back the clock on some features without changing the underlying disease. To date, there have been no treatments developed with this goal in mind. A variety of surgical approaches have been directed at reinnervating the severely depleted nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. If successful, these regenerative/restorative therapies would have major impact on the dopaminergic motor features of the disease (including the complications of dopamine replacement therapy) without changing the overall disease process or without affecting the nondopaminergic features of the disease. As a consequence, the later levodopa-resistant motor and nonmotor features will probably develop even in those patients who initially respond very well to these therapies,29 comparable to the experience of patients successfully treated with deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus.88
Lacking biological markers that can distinguish patient subtypes or knowledge of the order in which different cellular mechanisms contribute to neuronal loss (if the cellular mechanisms thus far reported are placed in series for a single disease rather than in parallel, in different subtypes), success may only be possible with the use of rational combinations of therapies directed at different components of the neurodegenerative process. Even when we have a better understanding of disease pathogenesis, cocktails of differently acting agents may be necessary for effective disease modification, as frequently applied in the management of many cancers, AIDS, tuberculosis, and autoimmune disorders. This need is further enhanced by potential redundancies or compensatory mechanisms that could reduce the potential success of even the most promising single target-directed therapy. Rather than discarding drugs that are found to be safe but “ineffective” when given as monotherapy, it might be appropriate to combine these with agents that target different but potentially complementary biological mechanisms. Combination therapy could include a variety of approaches, for example, targeting α-synuclein itself,

Functional deficiency in PD patients is compensated by brain neuroplasticity, which explains long-term development of the disease without manifestation of motor symptoms (Figure 1B).4,5,47-50 Compensatory processes include the following: (i) an increase in the functional activity of survived dopaminergic neurons, (ii) dopamine synthesis by striatal non-dopaminergic neurons expressing only tyrosine hydroxylase or aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (Figure 1B), (iii) increased sensitivity of target neurons to dopamine.4,5,47,49-53 In addition to the specific mechanisms of neuroplasticity that maintain dopamine neurotransmission at a normal level, there are nonspecific compensatory processes mediated by growth factors. These include the following: (i) axon branching and multiplication of synaptic terminals, (ii) activation of antioxidant systems, (iii) elimination of neurotoxins by glial cells.54,55

One of the global challenges in the XXI century is the fight against socially significant neurodegenerative disease, Alzheimer disease, PD, and others. This is due to the rapidly increasing incidence of neurodegenerative disease, as well as the significant cost of treatment and rehabilitation. The low efficacy of the current symptomatic treatment of these diseases is explained by the fact that they are diagnosed by the appearance of specific dramatic symptoms many years after the onset of neurodegeneration. By this time, the majority of specific neurons have already degenerated, and the compensatory reserve of the brain is depleted. Although the development of ED of neurodegenerative disease has been considered as a priority in neurology and psychiatry in recent decades, there is still no diagnostic technology recommended for clinical use.
Thus, the development of ED and neuroprotective treatment of PD, even if they do not make possible to cure patients, will significantly extend the period of higher quality of life

Thus, it appears that by increasing the firing rate of surviving DA neurons the overactive STN might be able to enhance remaining DA transmission and delay the appearance of symptoms until relatively late in the progression. An alternative view regarding the functional modulation of the STN after DA depletion has been recently proposed . The hyperactivity of the STN and related glutamatergic nuclei arises early in the course of PD, before striatal DA depletion has become significant . At this time (in the  resymptomatic state), DA loss in the caudal putamen is still not large enough (50%) to increase activity in the striatal inhibitory projection to the GPe. As a result, increased STN activity exerts a powerful excitatory effect on the GPe that leads to increased inhibition of the GPi and maintains the output of the motor circuit within normal limits. In that fashion, the “internal” STN-GPe–GPi circuit compensates itself . Increased STN activity could increase GPi firing by its direct excitatory projection, but this can be compensated by the still-normal inhibitory projection to the GPi (i.e., “direct” pathway). In PD, where the changes occur slowly, excessive STN drive onto the GPi might also be compensated by way of the nigro-pallidal DA projection, which has been shown to increase during the presymptomatic phase, by fluorodopa positron emission tomography (PET)

Disrupted Dopamine Transmission and the Emergence of Exaggerated Beta Oscillations in Subthalamic Nucleus and Cerebral Cortex

Acute disruption of dopamine transmission in control animals with antagonists of D1/D2 receptors did not exaggerate STN or cortical beta oscillations. Moreover, beta oscillations were not exaggerated until several days after 6-hydroxydopamine injections. Thus, contrary to predictions, abnormally amplified beta oscillations in cortico-STN circuits do not result simply from an acute absence of dopamine receptor stimulation, but are instead delayed sequelae of chronic dopamine depletion. Targeting the plastic processes underlying the delayed emergence of pathological beta oscillations after continuing dopaminergic dysfunction may offer considerable therapeutic promise.

Development of early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease: Illusion or reality?
The fight against neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer disease and Parkinson's disease (PD), is a challenge of the 21st century. The low efficacy of treating patients is due to the late diagnosis and start of therapy, after the degeneration of most specific neurons and depletion of neuroplasticity. It is believed that the development of early diagnosis (ED) and preventive treatment will delay the onset of specific symptoms. This review evaluates methodologies for developing ED of PD. Since PD is a systemic disease, and the degeneration of certain neurons precedes that of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons that control motor function, the current methodology is based on searching biomarkers, such as premotor symptoms and changes in body fluids (BF) in patients. However, all attempts to develop ED were unsuccessful. Therefore, it is proposed to enhance the current methodology by (i) selecting among biomarkers found in BF in patients at the clinical stage those that are characteristics of animal models of the preclinical stage, (ii) searching biomarkers in BF in subjects at the prodromal stage, selected by detecting premotor symptoms and failure of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. Moreover, a new methodology was proposed for the development of ED of PD using a provocative test, which is successfully used in internal medicine.

Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a degenerative neurological disorder that disrupts the basal ganglia causing abnormal beta oscillations. We present a modular mathematical model that can explore the origin of these abnormal oscillations without relying on numerical techniques — retaining much needed tractability and the ability to be analyzed through traditional analytical approaches.

The primate basal ganglia consists of six heavily interconnected populations or nuclei. The basal ganglia receives signals from the cortex, which then in
turn outputs to the thalamus and back to the cortex. There are two main pathways in which the cortical signal can reach the thalamus, the direct pathway (striatum→globus pallidus internal (GPi)→thalamus) or the indirect pathway (striatum→globus pallidus external (GPe)→subthalamic nucleus (STN)→GPi→thalamus). This cortico-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical (CBGTC) loop or motor circuit is essential for processing movement commands sent from the cortex.PD belongs to a class of basal ganglia disorders, in which there is a disruption in the processing of motor commands through the basal ganglia. There are numerous other symptoms and areas of the brain affected but for our discussion, we will focus on the motor aspects only. In the case of PD, a large percentage (around 70%) of the DA neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) are lost leading to a change in both firing patterns and firing rates.

The network connectivity of our model is as follows: cortex will excite striatum and STN; striatum will inhibit GPe and GPi; GPe will inhibit STN and GPi; STN will excite GPe and GPi; GPi will inhibit thalamus; and thalamus will excite cortex and striatum.4,8 Due to their similarities, the GPi and SNr are often lumped together into one nucleus. In the healthy basal ganglia, the firing rates and Local Field Potentials (LFPs) do not generally oscillate at a specific frequency.However, as PD
develops and motor signs begin to show, several neuronal oscillatory patterns can be electrophysiologically determined.Figure 2 shows spike train examples that
were electrophysiologically measured from a rhesus macaque GPe, STN, and GPi before and after the implementation of the DA neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Data suggest that these oscillations are correlationally linked to, and may be casually involved in PD motor symptoms, PD medication, and beta Fig. 2. A representative example of individual neurons’ spike trains from the rhesus macaque GPe,STN,and GPi before (left) and after (right) MPTP. Note how the
Parkinsonism firing rates are more prone to clumping. Additionally, the firing rate from the GPi has drastically increased. Reproduced from Galvan et al.,13 with
author’s permission. oscillations.14–17 These oscillations occur around a beta band frequency (11–30) Hz8,12,18–24 and have been observed using a variety of recording techniques.23 When treated with motor-symptom medication, these oscillations decreased giving credit to the theory that these beta band oscillations may by antikinetic. 
Although models have been developed to account for the firing rates of individual neurons, the number involved in the various nuclei makes this approach
intractable. In humans and monkeys, the STN, GPe, GPe, and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) have hundreds of thousands of individual neurons each.26
While the human striatum is estimated to have over 20 million neurons.Instead of modeling individual neurons, we will model using network perspective. This model is
based on work from Wilson and Cowan, that was later further developed by Dayan and Abbot as an alternative to the “significant computational, calculation, and interpretation challenges” that other models face. Instead of relying on individual spikes, each unit of the model would output an average firing rate. This situation is ideal for networks as each unit in the model can represent a population (or nucleus) receiving average firing rates from several other nuclei. This method has been used in several biological systems in which the behavior of the network is more important than its individual pieces such as, modeling visual hallucinations,neural oscillations in the olfactory bulb, temporal integration in whisker barrels of rodents, and essential tremor in humans.34 Additionally, this method has also been applied to the motor network and PD. It is worth noting that the nomenclature seems to refer to the specific network of one excitatory population and one inhibitory population and their dynamics as Wilson and Cowan Equations, where the firing rate method usually refers to a more general class of methods that can incorporate any
number of populations.
